Do you enjoy a good story?
If so, you’re in for a special treat.
“A People for Jehovah’s Name”
at world headquarters in Warwick
is more than a history museum.
It’s the modern-day story of a people
seeking to know the true God
and to do his will.
But this isn’t just any story
—it’s our story.
So let’s take
a thrilling journey back in time.
The story unfolds on the narrative wall
and in several galleries along the way.
We begin in the 1870’s,
when a small group
in Allegheny, Pennsylvania,
decided to reexamine the Bible.
As C. T. Russell reasoned:
All the creeds of Christendom
claim to be founded on the Bible;
and these are conflicting.
Is it possible that the Bible
has been misrepresented?
The more they learned,
the more they wanted to share.
So in 1879,
they began publishing Zion’s Watch Tower.
Readers were soon taking a stand
for the truths that they were learning.
Listen.
What I want to tell you is this,
I am free!
The truth has made me free!
To-day I was excluded
from the Baptist church . . .
So I am all alone in the ‘flesh,’
but not in the ‘spirit.’
They became known as the Bible Students,
and they soon realized that people
everywhere should hear the good news.
But how could this small group
preach the Bible’s message earthwide?
Transcontinental and international tours
helped them to see how they could expand
their preaching work even further.
In just one tour
beginning in December 1911,
C. T. Russell and his associates
traveled completely around the world.
Let’s imagine what it was like
to live in those exciting times.
In this gallery,
you can experience what life was like
for a pilgrim,
or what we today call a circuit overseer.
Here’s a pilgrim’s formal jacket
that he’d wear when giving a public talk.
The Bible Students offered the Studies
in the Scriptures series in the ministry.
And they carried lists to locate
and visit Watch Tower subscribers.
Then in 1914,
they presented
the exciting “Photo-Drama of Creation.”
Its purpose was to build faith in the Bible
as God’s inspired Word.
It was an innovative combination
of moving pictures,
sound recordings,
and beautiful, hand-colored glass slides.
Hundreds of people reenacted Bible scenes,
some with live animals!
Was this enormous work worth all the effort?
DEAR BROTHER RUSSELL,
I want to thank you;
oh, . . . so much, for the privilege
of seeing the PHOTO-DRAMA OF CREATION!
I had never thought to live to see
the everlasting Gospel preached
to those who dwell on the earth . . . !
Yet so it is.
Words cannot tell you how my heart rejoices!
—Your sister, F. E. Riley.
By the end of 1914,
over nine million had viewed it.
But with such success,
the Bible Students didn’t realize
what tests lay ahead.
The Gentile Times have ended;
their kings have had their day!
So we know not what awaits us.
World War I broke out in 1914.
Then in 1916,
the death of C. T. Russell
left the Bible Students in shock.
It was a unique time of testing.
Inside the organization,
some struggled over who should take the lead.
Outside,
governments tried to force them
to take sides in the war.
Then in 1918,
J. F. Rutherford
and seven of his close associates
were imprisoned.
Was this the end for the Bible Students?
Or would they prove to be
a people for Jehovah’s name?
The joy that came
with the release of our brothers
from the Atlanta Federal Prison on Tuesday,
March 25, 1919, knew no bounds.
Their further devotion to Jehovah
was shown in the fact
that they immediately set to work to herald
forth to the people of God everywhere
the knowledge of Jehovah’s deliverance.
—Thomas Sullivan.
The Bible Students
moved forward with renewed zeal.
But the opposition didn’t end there.
In this gallery,
you will see how our brothers and sisters
have stood firm for their faith.
In Russia, a father imprisoned for ten years
encouraged his young daughters
with hand-drawn postcards.
In Greece,
a son used the same blanket in prison
that his father used
when imprisoned before him.
It was an encouraging reminder
of his father’s integrity.
In Korea,
Witnesses were locked in tiny cells
for up to 30 days at a time.
When you stand in the lighted outline,
you get a sense of what it was like.
All of these brothers and sisters
looked beyond the prison bars
to their firm hope for the future.
As light from God’s Word increased,
the Bible Students humbly let go
of cherished but unscriptural traditions.
Songs used in worship were examined
in the light of what the Bible taught.
The people for Jehovah’s name
were becoming even more evident.
So in 1931,
they were thrilled to take on their new name
—Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Then in 1935,
Brother Rutherford identified
the great multitude of other sheep,
who served alongside the anointed.
At the climax of his talk, he asked:
Will all those who have the hope
of living forever on the earth please stand?
With this new understanding,
they saw the true scope
of Jesus’ commission to make disciples.
New and innovative methods were needed.
Our third gallery shows the preaching
methods used in the 1930’s and 1940’s.
Radio was a powerful way
to spread the Kingdom message
to large audiences.
They also used large phonographs,
called portable transcription machines,
with loudspeakers mounted on sound cars.
Brothers played recorded talks
wherever people gathered.
Lighter phonographs
were also designed and produced so publishers
could take the recorded message
directly to people at home.
These methods
helped bring unity to the message,
but the time had come to train each one
of Jehovah’s people
to be an effective Witness.
Schools were started.
The Course in Theocratic Ministry
trained publishers in the congregation.
And the Bible School of Gilead
began training missionaries
for global expansion.
We had entered
into a new era of divine education.
And we were about to receive an amazing tool.
In 1950,
we received the New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
And by 1961, the complete Bible was released.
Since then,
we’ve seen our tools continue to improve
with the wise use of modern technology.
From high-speed printing
to the Internet and video,
these methods help us to stay unified,
to reach millions with the good news,
and to glorify God.
Yes, this museum’s story is about people,
but not just any people.
We are “a people for Jehovah’s name.”
Only one question remains:
What will you contribute
to this wonderful story?